Before going on to write about it, I would like to write about the questions that I've tried to answer ...
1. What is desire and how does it come about in oneself?
2.How are desire,pleasure,control and love are related?
3.Can the mind understand and see the structure of this desire from which this thing born out in the first place?
4.Can we live without desire if possible or if we can live with desire without any form of control?

I think desire is a kind of possession or identification of ourselves to something whether it is in the form of some future projection of ourselves from our past memory(Goals,aims etc.,) or in some form of identification to physical things(like Cars,humans,gadgets etc.,) or to a certain ideology. As such we embrace all the qualities and properties that we think are necessary for us to able to be a member of that particular "grouping"(as some sort of representation). Like when we identify ourselves with some religion or religious ideology then there is this inherent desire(though subliminally) to do all those things that all the people in that particular grouping are doing or embracing so that we can identify ourselves,which sort of give us a sense of security and certainty. 

We seem to have two kinds of appetite, one is natural appetite which induces all the desires that we instinctively evolved to have like desires to eat food,desire to drink when we're thirsty etc., and the other is the  artificial one which apparently, is a function of one's experience,environment they've grown and conditioning of their social setting. The sequence of events that leads one to have certain desires are perception like visual perception of a beautiful building or painting or car etc. or some future projection of the ourselves etc., and then comes the sensation of that perception like the feeling if we are in that X position or have that Y thing and then may be some contact with that perception and then comes the thought with all the backlog of our memory converts that perceived thing into desire. And we meet the violence if we don't get that desire fulfilled. I think desire is the same thing whether it is noble or ignoble as apparently they seem to be operating fundamentally the same way and have same structure.    

Pleasure and fear seem to be the two sides of the same coin. We kind of think that pleasure is some form of feeling or some state of our brain but I think it is the memory or remembrance of that feeling or state in the mind when it happens and we sort of replaying in our brain.But how does that moment(which we store in our brain and replaying) comes about?... I think it comes about when the "me" is absent i.e when we forget ourselves (with the negation of all of our memories,images,thoughts etc., I'm referring to psychological memories,images etc., which has nothing to do with the technological one) from the consciousness and sort of dissolving ourselves with the environment we are presently in. We can observe that when we are in some party like thing for the first time we forget all of our worries,memory and thoughts as such we can be joyous  for the moment and the remembrance of that joy is where born the pleasure and desire to repeat that act. On the other side fear born out of the thought of not having or sustaining that joyous moment for a long time in our life makes our brain to store that moment as pleasure and thereby repeating it over and over again. They seem to be going hand in hand.

Monks(religious texts to some extent) everywhere saying that to lead happy life we shouldn't have desires of any form, for which they preach to transfer the desire from one thing(like comforts,women etc.,) which they consider lower to something higher one(like god, text or some idea or mantra) but I think it is still the same desire fundamentally and this consideration of lower and higher desires seems to be  only self deception. It is like putting on the blinkers to horse for them to be able to move in a confined path without any startling. But have ever think of and look at desire quietly?

We seem to be inviting authority(religious or other) and discipline into our life to dictate us what to do in the search for some sort of power in order to secure a pleasure that is not  yet realized. We seem to be addicted to pleasure seeking as we kind of leading a dull and monotonous life without any vigor. We seem to have following all those dogmatic trivialities  either out of the fear of getting punished by superior after the end of our life or in the hope for a super joyous moment to happen in our life and either which are the same form of projecting ourselves into future and thereby strengthening this "me" thing. So need there be a control/discipline in our life? and can we live without desire?

PS: Please note that all these are observations which are highly subjective and I appreciate if you can point out any shortcomings and wrong perspectives through which I may be viewing on these things and they need not to be the obvious for everyone and I will be glad if we can talk through these things. And forgive me if I happen to be not able to convey lucidly and for any repetition of the content and also for any grammatical and syllabic errs. Your critical feedback or comments are the reasons why I'm writing these so please do share yours.