Doubt is an important part of the human experience. It allows us to question our assumptions and to see the world in new and different ways. Doubt can be a powerful tool for growth and for change.When we doubt our beliefs, we are forced to examine them more closely. We may find that our beliefs are not as strong as we thought they were. This can be a painful process, but it can also lead to a deeper understanding of ourselves and the world around us.Doubt can also help us to see the world in new and different ways. When we are open to doubt, we are open to new ideas and new perspectives. We may find that the world is not as black and white as we thought it was. Doubt can help us to see the gray areas and to understand that there is often more than one side to every story.


The first thing that we generally do when we doubt is the outright rejection (subliminally or consciously) of the things in the consideration, but doubting != Rejection rather it is something that purifies our mind which is filled with all the information and conclusions.
Our whole life in some way or other way is nothing but a bunch of relations we have with people, things, environment (natural or social) etc., around us. In that relation, we have images virtually about everything.

If we go deep into the 'why' of this image forming thing, we may find that it sort of gives a sense of security, safety, well-being and in-activeness etc., because if one has an image about something one feels, one knows about (the Knowledge). Otherwise, one needs to be very active, alert, curious and needs to have that vitality to be in constant operation from moment to moment in that relationship. The latter is being avoided and punished in this highly specialized society with all its intricate relations with images, and also we have been raised to fit into that groove of the society. So we, naturally, don't have that drive or even don't know the existence of such a possibility. This leads to the gradual degeneration of the mind, and it causes withering away of that vitality, because we never doubt or question these images to whose music we are dancing. Images that all the religious authority imposed upon us. Images that we have formed as a result of propaganda, fear, in the name of traditions, culture etc., But can that strange flower or possibility of life that all the religions are pointing out as the pinnacle of human life (of course with various names in different religions) be achieved without internal order rather only imposing external order? If not, then how can one have that internal order? 


Society of humans is nothing but people as a function of all their vanity, ambition, aggression, beliefs, and desires. Then, basically every image formation and thus relationship is also made of these things only, which ultimately lead to a rotten society. So, how can one live without a single image in this society? (A life beyond image formation that is completely secure and the security being derived from not forming images but not from the illusions of image?)  

Our consciousness is made of fears, beliefs, vanity, hypocrisy desires etc., with which we operate. If we question/doubt these, then only we may go beyond them to have that internal order needed to reach that pinnacle, but not with satisfying ourselves with the words and explanations which is what our whole consciousness is all about.




We have been told by all the religions through their sacred books, teachers, and gurus about the truth and how it looks like (although truth can't be describable) and also the predefined way of getting or achieving it with well laid roadmap with signs and signals. If one follows that with the incentive of finding truth as an end in mind, then don't that amount to merely accepting and satisfying or luring ourselves (with truth being the reward), which is basically the old pattern of our consciousness repeating itself? Thus, we caught up in the same loop with no way to get out of it. We always live in the known (the meaning of which is as described above) and one who needs to be completely free of this known to be able to clearly observe, see and experience for ourselves the truth. Culture is nothing but the mechanical repetition of the known, and we have been conditioned and programmed to repeat the same procedure with exact details, just as the like the computers are programmed with conditions to repeat doing certain things. But if we begin to doubt and observe with full freedom, then the whole thing collapses.  Freedom from known means to free of all the illusions and filters that we have formed, and we need to be completely free (in the sense described above) before going to see the content of our consciousness.

Doubt is a great purifier, and we should not accept things, especially the spiritual things, that are being imposed on us through authority. Rather, doubt to find out what is true with a mind that is completely free. This requires so much sensitivity and vitality. We don't need to go anywhere else to find out the truth, rather, it is right here in with you. 👀👀