First things first, I choose to write about this because I'm currently in a phase of life where the constant thread running in every  conversation I make, see and hear is “fear”. As an under graduating student, who is in his final years, I can say with certainty that the feeling of getting a sense of what fear look like, is overwhelming. It is the feeling of being in your final years of university, and not knowing what the future holds. It is the feeling of not knowing if you will be able to find a job after graduation, or if you will be able to make ends meet. It is the feeling of being unsure of what the future holds, and it can be a very scary feeling. It's like a huge weight is pressing down on your chest, and you can't breathe. Your heart races, and your mind is filled with images of what could happen if you don't succeed. It's paralyzing and perplexing. Added to this is the kind of environmental and social setup that I'm currently happen to be in kind of exacerbates it. Although this feeling is a function of the subjective experiences and the kind of distraction away from this issue for each individual. 

One thing everyone embraces when in fear is to take refuge in some kind of distraction away from this tough reality by various means, the like of activating on the devotional rhetoric and image formations, arts or instantly gratifying motivational videos or suppressing the feelings or following someone blindly who seem to be having the key to the castle or all sorts of addictions etc., But all these are recipes for failure and futile rather they are just gimmicks played by our mind to escape that harsh reality. This gimmick is being played every time, whenever the harsh reality arises, and we are accustomed to doing it repeatedly. It's like putting a band-aid on a bullet hole.

If one can ask anyone of what fear mean to them, then they might answer in terms of like fear of loneliness,  fear of not being accepted, fear of not succeeding, fear of death, fear of not being loved, fear of losing someone etc. Observing from these, we may tend to infer  that it (fear) meant different for different people in different contexts and dealing with every individual thing under different context might be the way forward to do away with fear. But I think all these individual things are just like branches of a tree that are stemming and getting feed from the same root. Trimming certain branches won't solve the problem, rather, it just gives way for new branches to grow out. Then, do we want to just trim the branches or cut the root altogether in order to destroy this tree called 'fear'? Surely, we will choose to do the latter, but what is the root of that tree and how one can reach out to that?

Living under the fear is the most appalling thing to be in. It psychosomatically deprives us of our energy and vitality. It plagues the (our body) physical  organism. It affects the daily matters, sleep, inner self, our sanity, and everything. It can lead to chronic depression, anxiety and all sorts of psychological neurosis which is not so trivial matter to be shunned off our consideration. Seeing all these dire consequences of it, one may either run away from it or suppress it or rationalize it or identify oneself with some greater self (god) or join and form groups etc. But this thing always brewing deep down inside us, and we can perpetually pretend  like we don't observe it throughout our lives. And, for someone who more or less removes all these guises to be able to find that subliminal thing, are just waiting for someone to come along and say the procedure to reach out to the root. They readily accept those things said by others and the moment we accept something said and handed down by someone then it becomes an idea. The moment we create an idea, we ought to lost contact with the real thing. All the subsequent things we accept, expose ourselves to and read are just those which strengthen the accepted idea. It is like learning swimming from reading books.

So in order to reach to the root of the tree and cut it out, we need to investigate and analyze it for ourselves, but apparently this analysis is not solving the problem. Since in this analysis and observation we sort of separate the analyzer  and the thing which he has been analyzing. To get the issue involved in it, consider the case of a scientist who is observing a cell under microscope. Now, he has to observe all the things being revealed by the cell under microscope passionately without any preconceived ideas, naming, and conclusions about it.  If he observes that cell by naming it, then that very act of naming assigns certain characteristics and conclusions to it. So, when he observes that cell, he can only be able to see those assigned characteristics and conclusions but not all the things that the cell revealing itself. So that observation won't be going to reveal anything new (In scientific, the close word for it is “heuristic bias”). Similarly, when we see the fear as something being analyzed and observed by us, we sort of differentiate the analyzer and analyzed where we assign  all the characteristics and features by name-calling and that observation won't reveal anything new and true. We observe the fear as though it is different and external from us, either in the memories or current unfolding events, but in reality the analyzer is the analyzed. (It might have been a bit fuzzy here, but I had tried my best to convey this complicated intricate matter, and please read it once again if you don't get the meaning of “analyzer is the analyzed”) 

From this vantage point of view, we set on to observe the fear. From seeing and being it touch with that thing, the positive action that our instincts indicts would be to act upon it and do something about it, and this tendency will again point to the escaping game we play on ourselves. Rather, we should embark on doing the negative action which is not doing anything about it and just observe it, and we may find all those nice revelations that the thing under observation offers.

If we actually do so, then the  root of fear seems to be time, which implicitly have this element of thought – I might lose my job, I might not get settled in life, I might get rejected, I might be discovered of my wrong doings etc. First, we see and experience the event and reason it for logics, and initially it becomes non-personal. But thought comes along and factors in the movement of time and say 'I think this may happen', 'I think that may happen' etc. Having time in physical technical world is seemingly not having any problem, but transcribing the same concept in psychological world is what making all the chaos.  