People are often hesitant to use social media as a selling and effective networking tool because they're worried about sharing too much personal information, but putting your vision out there in all its glory doesn't have to be scary. Keeping it short and simple is key to preserving your privacy. The topics I will be covering will be personal, but I want to open up about my life so that you can hear directly from me about what inspires me and motivates me.!!

This is not a vanity project, rather a way to understand and effectively comprehend and authenticate these vague thoughts in mind, nevertheless, please feel free to leave comments and critical feedback. I'd love your input on how I could improve and what you think of these things. Living becomes very hard for the ambitious people, as long as  they don't have a direction in realizing their dreams. This direction becomes clearer only when we have a clear end in mind with a roadmap to achieve them. Most often what we believe need not always be true and right and there is no better way than to take the critical feedback by putting them in the public space.  

I was born and brought up in a below middle class family in a small village where the only employment options available were those related to agriculture, its allied fields. If you look at my family background, nobody has ever been in any field of organized work, and we(my clan of sibling) are the first generation graduates(I'm not yet a graduate 👻). My parents(included the whole of my clan's aunts and uncles) were and still are employed in the agricultural and its allied fields. 
I grew up seeing how hard they worked every day to earn their living, but still they didn't have enough money to fulfill all of our needs. They struggled to educate me and my brother. That's when I decided to help the people like them to rise above the challenges they face in their daily lives. I believe in being active and contributing to a cause that brings about a peaceful change in society.
I recognized that being an IAS officer would be one of the best ways to help people because as an IAS officer, you can influence many people's lives just by doing your job right. And it seems to me the only viable, quick and efficient option available in front of me at this moment in time. 
So this was my first motivation behind preparing for the exam.  And I'm viewing to prepare for it, either by connecting with a mentor in my own capacity or to crack any of the free UPSC coaching exams conducted by various organizations and coaching institutes. Currently, I'm following only reading newspaper, as the academia  as well as building of necessary foundations for plan B by learning the concepts in my engineering course are putting too many constraints on maintaining the consistency in preparation. I'm viewing to start preparing for it seriously from August to when these things will rest in peace.

The first thing to remember is that the UPSC exam is not a cakewalk. It said to  be very challenging exam, and hence one must prepare keeping in mind the negative aspects of the same. Aspirants should be prepared for unexpected events, such as failure in any paper or sudden change of strategy by the UPSC. Due to the nature of the exam and its structure, it is difficult to predict what one’s performance will be like.

It is being said that the UPSC has changed its examination pattern quite a few times over the past few years, making it more unpredictable than before. Candidates should also keep in mind that there can be sudden changes in their personal lives as well, which can result in an inability to pursue their preparation. Thus, it is essential and wise to have a backup plan for every eventuality that can occur during this period.

In order to deal with these unforeseen events, aspirants should always have a plan B ready. The focus of plan B needs to be on preparing for having an alternative career option other than UPSC CSE. In my case, I am viewing to go for the core sector's R&D field, which is of as much exciting and interesting as this UPSC CSE thing for me. So, I'm currently viewing to build out my conceptual and qualitative understanding of engineering concepts rock solid, which perhaps might help me to choose my stream as optional in UPSC CSE, and I'm trying to complete this task by the end of July by any sorts. 

My interest in coding and software may be been inspired by my stream as a student of science. My curiosity in how things work and how they can be improved and optimized. As I learned more, my interest in programming grew. I started to develop an interest in coding, web development and how the internet works. I enjoy learning new things that could be used to explain how things works to myself and  thus my improving my skills and perspectives in seeing things. This is why I am interested in programming because it gives me the opportunity to learn new technologies that help me to become a better interpreter and developer(a name that I don't want to identify myself with but no plausible is not happening to strike in my mind right now 🙆🏻‍♂️).

I have always been interested in working with computers, programming, and technology since a tender age. It's something that has always captivated me, but I never thought about it this much interesting and exciting up until I was introduced to programming. I am very much inquisitive with what certain technology can do, and I kinda tries out all the possible options and applications to just sort of exploring what it could do. So I am naturally driven to learn about various software technologies and software solutions to apply them to solve some tangible real life problem, which may seem like a vanity thing to say 😒🙆🏻‍♂️. So I'm viewing to hold on to this baton of natural driven interest in software and coding technologies through the life, which needs to be accommodated into the previously set out goals. (maybe on a daily basis, like dedicating 1 hour nighttime)

Having it may seem like that I'm setting foot on too many things only to make out a recipe for failure in the end. I'm a staunch endorser of the generalist concept, which proved in the lives of many highly effective people in the world(one of them is my all-time favorite Elon Musk), and also I have personally experienced it. Never ever any skills and thing learned goes wasted, especially given the current explosion of intertwining of many technologies  which sort of blurs the distinction line between different subject areas. It’s not true that you must specialize early and systematically move from point A to point B which is a sort of societal groove only. Success can also involve a long, circuitous journey of learning, self-discovery and innovation, as has been happened in the lives of a great many people throughout the history. So, don’t fret if you find it hard to stick to 1 thing.

Every day, there are people that say they are a master in a craft and have one skill set. With the world moving fast changing, you don't want to be a one-trick pony. In this generation of technology, multiple skill-sets can help you grow and reach new heights.
There are people that have a skill set that learned from the school of hard knocks. There are also people who have obtained their skill set through formal education. In either case, having multiple skills sets will increase your worth and keep you relevant in the job market.
The media industry is a good example of needing multiple skill sets to stay in demand. For example, actors and actresses take on multiple roles in film and television, as well as taking on business opportunities to brand themselves as entrepreneurs.

Musicians used to just be singers or songwriters, but now they must produce music and be able to market their music across the world through the internet. There are so many talented musicians, but only a small amount make it into the mainstream because they lack key business acumen or promotional skills.

Having two or more skill-sets increases your value exponentially in the marketplace because you can bring more to the table than just one thing. It's important for every person to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses.  We can observe in the lives of many influential persons as well, like take for example, the life of Elon Musk who transcended multiple disciplines right from physics to coding to rocket science to electronics to battery to cars to AI. We should remember here not to blindly follow the cue of an outlier like the sort of Elon Musk, which need not be true in everyone's  life. This can notoriously be called getting fooled by randomness. And also remember that, how many Musk's does it take to screw in a reusable rocket ?.

And that's the end.... Thanks for reading! I’d love to hear what you think of my writing and style. Feel free to leave comments below with any feedback or questions. Thank you so much for taking the time to read it. I'd love to hear your feedback and suggestions and shortcomings on this matter!
