Apparently, the common attribute that comes to one's mind the moment we say love, is the presence of dependence on some external agent in some relationship with oneself. We sort of constantly crave/long for that feeling or sense of being certain/sure of getting what we need from this external agent(Be it care, being heard, or signs of image projection and strengthening about ourselves in their minds). But this long for being loved and dependence on some external thing seems to be a ripple effect of something deeper that what it seems to be. Let's try to decipher and explore them. 

From physics, we know that many of the phenomena are governed by the duality of the "cause" and "effect". For example, take the case when a body moves under the action of a force where the phenomena happening here is motion and the "cause" is the action of force that produces a proportional "effect" of acceleration (Equality achieved when we account for constant i.e F=ma). There is this saying that there can't be smoke without the presence of fire. Similarly, for the effect of longing to be loved stems from a cause (which is mostly subliminal), a background, a motive which says or dictates that I must have that, and one needs to acknowledge and understand this cause and free of it.

Why do we have this desire to be loved? Is it because we are lonely? Or Is it  because if we feel like we are not been loved, there is no rise from dead moment for us? Or is it that, if we are loved, then we can sort of flower and grow to be happy and all that? Or Is it in ourselves, we're nothing and if someone loves us we may become something or achieve something? There are many sorts of underlying causes, and associated with the effect(of longing to be loved) is this constant anxiety and fear.

For instance, say that I'm desperately lonely, and I want you to love me and in the time interval between setting the objective to achieving it lies all these sorts of image formations about the relationship and the person's involved, and you sort of turn away from me which blows up all those images, where I become full of anxiety and more depressed than ever. I, then, try to escape from myself through various means like cricket, church, religion, joining cult groupings, finding new gurus, all the latest literature, entertainment, arts etc., If the desire is too strong, I may then try desperately and persistently to get your love and in no means, I may resort to do something more heinous. In this, I have reduced all of my life, which is such an extraordinary and splendid thing, to a petty little thing of you loving me.

When the mind is caught in such an anxiety, it can't think clearly, and it can't even listen carefully since it is full of anxiety, and its own sense of desperation to achieve something. Now, can there be an interval in which you sort of questioned yourself like "Tell me about it! Or what is it that plaguing me?". And then will you listen for what has been said and go into it Or will you say  like "No! I don't want to listen because I still love being in this intense sense of anxiety Or It makes so uncomfortable so that I don't want to think about it and leave it to the time to answer Or will going to be keep with it", which is what most people do in general since seemingly without that sense of anguish you're nothing, and that sense anxiety that keeps you alive.

Apparently, the only way out of this mess or psychological niche is to listen with all our being and heart to what has been said when we introspect ourselves then it kind of sows the seed which grows and flowers itself for us to be able to free of it. And if we have gone through it, we may discover that love is not something to be asked from someone, which seems to be a sort of trading of emotions and conditioning just like the way we trade goods, services and money in our economy. The moment we ask someone to love us, then we sort of inviting them to fill our bowl with their rubbish, which adds or holds no value in our life. And we crave for their love only when we don't have love     in ourselves intrinsically.