The common idea or the conception that comes to one's mind the moment we say perfectionism is the need for perfect results like maximum possible test score,the flawless recital, the unanimous verdict,the unequivocal conclusions, non vulnerable personality etc.,But this idea seems to be a subtle deeper reality under disguise(which I am giving a try to reveal it in here) and I came to know about it's dooms day effects after reading the statement given at the last of the page on twitter by an author and then I went on to see and understand it. 

In a more general perspective, perfectionism can be thought as a tendency to stake our identity on achieving certain fixed 'ideal' outcomes where these fixed 'ideal' outcomes vary by person to person like feeling smart, beautiful, getting that car or job we've been craving for so long etc., None of these outcomes are problems but they become so when they intertwine with our own identity and self-worth i.e If a perfectionist of smartness ever feels outsmarted then he feels doomed and ashamed. Hence perfectionists stakes or bets his identity on achieving his outcomes i.e his self-worth depends on the realizing them which is more of a sort of pitiful wager and a poor strategy.

However, the perfectionism is more of a tendency than a law as such we can either unlearn it and replace it with other approaches with practice or we can reinforce it through our actions. Either choice and decision is ours. 


Let's first see this tendency clearly by entering into the mind of a severe perfectionist. Our perfectionist has always done well in school and has been told that he is the smartest by all of the most important people in his life from childhood which is just a part of how he sees himself and success now and then affirms that.

He starts new projects and tasks with an optimistic but very brittle confidence. Easy tasks and problems are within his grasp and he handles them flawlessly.But the real psychotic game starts when the difficulty rises.If the tendency is milder he could push through it, but he want to preserve his self-image so badly that he refuses to face his imperfect reality. He feels threatened by moderate setbacks and finds any number of excuses to procrastinate it in the moment: he's not in the mood, not in the right place, too busy, not inspires, no vigor, too hungry, too full, too tired, too distracted etc., because the moment he senses failure he feels worthless. The thought of fumbling in the void terrifies him. So he retrenches into safer and comfortable grounds and zones. 

He might refuse help of any kind. He might procrastinate and resort to last minute heroics or chase for standards that are delusionally high which is in a way is a self-sabotage as such to tilt game in his favor. If he succeeds despite it, he affirms his brilliance and talent and if not he survives unscathed because no body seem to be playing his impossible game which means nobody can make him feel inferior. In the worst case he might fail intentionally in a view to better,he thinks, to crash and burn rather than being perceived for mediocre. 

He might refuse help of any kind. He might procrastinate and resort to last minute heroics or chase for standards that are delusionally high which is in a way is a self-sabotage as such to tilt game in his favor. If he succeeds despite it, he affirms his brilliance and talent and if not he survives unscathed because no body seem to be playing his impossible game which means nobody can make him feel inferior. In the worst case he might fail intentionally in a view to better,he thinks, to crash and burn rather than being perceived for mediocre. 

When someone surpasses him, her dynamics are no different. He may assign them to the things like they have more money, they have richer opportunities,savvier teachers,more connections, good guidance..... where the game is rigged from the beginning. Since he has the tendency, he can justify not changing it therefore he chooses and reinforces it through various means subliminally as it is both the cause and effect.

If shorn of his defenses, he suffers existentially. He wagered his self-worth ans he lost. He berates himself-"why am I so stupid? Why can't I be better? Why am I not happy? "- and comes the constant comparisons and justifications and somehow copes with the bitter results.And if the failure is more than he can handle he feels irrevocable lost and worthless and then enters into the deeper hell of chaos. He is theory over practice, fantasy over reality, dreaming over acting and resentment and frustration over curiosity.

Now let's examine the pros and contra of this perfectionism.Perfectionism endures cause it has its merits. It sets high standards and feeds on a source of intense energy i.e the fear of losing our self identity and self worth.So,it is no surprise that some of world's luminaries embrace it and made contracts with it.

Apparently, this perfectionism tendency have a ripple effect in correlation to a number of other negative qualities some of which are.....

1.  Procrastination through fear of failure and delaying complex uncertain tasks so as to disguise the imperfection

2.Imposter syndrome as the fear of being found out and judged unworthy and fear of being left out with constant comparison.

3.Obsessive compulsion wherein we kinda of hijacked by the constant easy to get dopamine sources like continuously scrolling social network time line feeds

4. Burnout after being chronically failing to live up to their ideal self they have created for themselves..

An alternative approach might be to embrace the "excellence" conception which differs from perfectionism in two ways

1.When perfectionism focuses on achieving a target excellence focuses on pursuing. Success and failure aren't even in our full control as such our focus shifts from outcomes to process when we embrace excellence over perfectionism

2.When perfectionism focuses on fixed outcomes, excellence focuses on better outcomes. Any real situation can always be improved and since there is no perfect outcome, perfection is impossible.