There are many things that we do without really knowing the "why" of those things. We may do them because they are what is expected of us, or because they are what we have always done or beacuse they are what everyone around us are doing or we may be doing them because we simply don't know any better. But sometimes, it can be highly helpful  to take a step back and try to understand the reasons behind our actions. It has the potential to cause paradigm shift in our perspective.And it can also help us to find meaning and connection in the things we do. So, here's an attempt to find for myself those "why"s of choosing the civil services carrer path. 


#1 Considers success by the amount of impact we've created. So, nothing seem as better and efficient as the UPSC CSE.

          I know that the meaning of success can be different for different individuals under different contexts. As such, there are many ways of measuring the success. One way to measure success is by the amount of impact we have created. This could be in terms of the number of people we have helped, the difference we have made in their lives, or the change we have brought about in the world. Whatever form it takes, impact is a powerful and viable way to gauge success, which I think is the reason behind why many billionaires pledge millions of their money into this. We have to move very high position in the ascendancy ladder in any other field, to be able in a state of creating such an impact, and it takes a lot of time, patience, effort, and luck. So the efficient and quickest way available is this Civil services.

#2 Challenging but not 9-5 job!

        There's nothing wrong with wanting a 9-5 job. They're stable, they offer benefits, and they can be a great way to start your career.  You punch in, do your work, and then punch out. While there's nothing wrong with this type of job, it can be a bit monotonous and not fulfilling. I have a difficult time dealing with that boredom, as such I seek a job that is quite opposite to the aforesaid. Civil services offer diverse problems that require an active approach for finding/forming/addressing the solutions. Added to that is the array of interactions that the officers will have, which makes it the wholesome experience for anyone to have in life.

#3 Family background 
		
	If you come from a rural family background, you may be wondering why you should choose civil services as your career. Here are four good reasons to consider civil services:
	1. Civil servants are highly respected in society.
	2. Civil servants enjoy a great deal of job security.
	3. Civil servants often have excellent benefits and salaries.
	4. Civil servants can have a tremendous impact on society.

	As you can see, there are many good reasons to choose civil services as your career. If you come from a rural family background, you will be especially aware of the importance of having a stable, secure job. And as a civil servant, you will have the opportunity to help others and make a real difference in your community.

#4 Power and Freedom

	There are many reasons to choose civil services as a career. The power and freedom that these offer are some of the most appealing factors.

	In most civil service jobs, you will have a lot of power and freedom to make decisions. This is because you will be in charge of implementing policies and procedures. You will also be responsible for ensuring that these policies and procedures are followed. This means that you will have a lot of responsibility and you will be able to make a difference in your community.

	Another reason to choose civil services is the freedom that you will have. You will be able to work from home or anywhere else that you want. You will also be able to set your own hours. This means that you can work when it is convenient for you.

	 Civil services also offer a great deal of job security. This is because the government is always looking for qualified individuals to fill these positions. This means that you will be able to keep your job for as long as you want.

	Overall, civil services offer a great deal of power and freedom. This makes them an appealing choice for many people.

#5 Generalist persona 

        A civil servant must have a wide range of knowledge in many different areas in order to be effective in their job. They must be able to understand and apply the law, have a good understanding of finance and economics, and be able to manage people and resources effectively with the right kind of technology and principles. Thus, it provides the opportunities for personal and professional development in multidisciplinary areas, which kind of lines up with my interset of generalist approach. Although not as much lucrative in terms of monetary benefits when compared with other career options, but we can hop onto other fields as a side project or overseeing things with this generalist approach.

#6 Bureaucratic Red Tapism!

        Red Tapism refers to excessive regulation or rigid conformity to formal rules that is considered redundant and bureaucratic and hinders action or decision-making. In other words, these are burdensome rules, providing no added value. So, fortunately, or unfortunately I'm being prone to this many times which, I think, might have kindled the inclination for this from the need to have effective and efficient bureaucratic approach (I might have been biased in this 😁😁!)



