Recently, I came to this realization that writing helps one to clearly comprehend the thoughts in their head which help in deciphering our own conditioning and biases about certain things and thereby improving our understanding about ourselves and thereby making a serious introspection that not been led by any outside agency or authority rather by our own selves. I think that one needs to set things in their minds rightly(whose meaning is subjective) and properly for one to get to that state of timelessness which requires the complete revelation of the deep down layers of consciousness and that can possible only when we understand these random abstract thoughts and that, I think can be done by many ways but writing seems to be apt one in this information age.  

Writing lucidly has been bed rock for many revolutionary ideas,discoveries and inventions as well from time immemorial.It requires a sense of ingenuity to write lucidly and pragmatically and many agree to that fact as well. So, it is the utmost important skill everyone needs to learn for them to communicate effectively and thereby ascending the ladder in the society. Almost everything in the world starts with writing things onto a page be it music, inventions,discoveries,goal setting,teaching,strategy mapping, growth tracking,road maps,selling .......so on and on.

Steve jobs once said that the most powerful person in the world is the story teller for storytellers, sets the vision,values and agendas of an entire generation that is to come.And storytelling cannot be done with this tool of effective writing which can come about only through compounding(consistent daily writing). The best part about writing consistently is when people ask us any questions, then  our mind kinda jumps into the ideas we've already written about and since we've written about them we've thought thorough and can explain the idea clearly and concisely and that how people sound smart and they includes the story tellers and business leaders and pioneers. That might be the reason why UPSC includes those gruelling papers of essays in civil services.
I think that writing effectively and beautifully apparently a by product from writing system that we built over the time which makes them inevitably seem beautiful and effective  rather than a direct result from the hammering out by sitting in front of a blank paper. Just like how Elon Musk once said,"Tesla doesn't make cars rather Tesla invest in the factories that make great cars". So stemming on this writing habit with a system is all what we have to do for producing beautiful writings by leaving the rest of the things to the magic of compounding.   
There are a ton of new self help books evolving every year and people are going on frenzy about these genre books but I think that one can't ascend or make any progress in their self discovery until and unless one doesn't reflect on their life experiences and there can't be no better and effective way other than writing and revealing it into the public for them to review and critique the work/perspectives of the writer. That's why I choose to write in here other than personally journaling them down. 
This is my first ever experience with writing so please bear me out with any errands in sentences or expressions and also for inconsistencies in the expression of my thoughts and for any biased conclusions and judgements... I really appreciate if you can point anything wrong in this and I am assuring you that I will take that freely and objectively since it(to get reviewed and pointed out by the peers for my short comings) is my main intention in writing this. This is a small step towards imbibing this writing habit into my routine.